is it a recession or not it depends on
who you ask you came here for the truth
so let me unveil that for you in today's
video we are going to look at the white
color recession that is going on right
now I'm going to show you what's
happening with the jobs I've got a lot
of data to bring to you today and I want
to get into it right away let's begin
here welcome to the White Collar
recession and you will look around and
you ask the question of you know what is
current unemployment rate the government
gives you their u3 unemployment rate
which at the time of this recording it
jumped up to 3.9% what is important
about 3.9% is that historically when it
goes above 4% there is an official
recession at some point in the near
future if they can hold it down under
this number magically there may not be
an official recession declared but
history shows when it goes above 4% it
us usually climbs above we're in a
recession period for a while and then we
see what happens you are looking at of
course a very different world than you
know over this last several years in
fact where we have been consumed by debt
and everybody is drowning in a sea of
inflation here you have it over the past
year or so pretty much everyone who has
looked for a job has told me the same
thing the job market is brutal now
they've applied to dozens if not
hundreds of openings only to get one or
two call backs no one's hiring they tell
me I've never seen it this bad listening
to them you would think you're in the
middle of a recession but the confusing
thing is that we're nowhere close to one
unemployment is near a five decade low
the economy is adding hundreds of
thousands of jobs each month and wages
are growing faster than inflation by all
standard measures the manipulated
measures the job market is doing just
fine so why am I hearing this well um it
just basically gets into the fact that
people who are making more than
$96,000 while the situation is pretty
depressing hiring has slowed to a dismal
0.5% less than half the peak it reached
in mid
2022 and then it goes on so if you make
a six-figure salary it's a bad time to
be looking for a job all right now
that's when you start to understand what
has happened many people many people are
dealing with this today and they're in
the same situation as just about
everyone else because they're pushed to
the edge it doesn't matter where your
income lies it's all based on expenses
and everything has become much more
expensive so you could have afforded
your home before you could have afforded
the car the the insurance HOA fees
whatever like wherever you are there's
all these things that you're buying and
okay that's you know this fee and that
fee and this insurance that insurance it
has really multiplied really multiplied
over the last while and people at every
level are hurting of course except the
very top and so now what's going on is
that people are pulling back on
expenses there's an issue with
corporations as Mark
Zuckerberg suggested managers managing
managers managing managers managing
managers managing the people who are
doing the
work that's who is getting cut today or
is in the biggest I would say the worst
position and of course with artificial
intelligence I think that the management
middle management specifically
is in a very bad place they could get
pushed out like a lot of companies will
say hey don't worry you're not going to
get fired uh but remember that job you
were doing uh like three years ago yeah
okay you want that job again or you want
no job take a pick so that's what's
going on today um and of course it's a
little demoralizing people uh they
suddenly were promoted maybe they went
from a supervisor then they're you know
suddenly they're a manager wow fantastic
you've you've worked so so hard you've
stayed late and all this and then
they're saying hey we're going to get
rid of
management and so that hurts for a lot
of people they can move to different
companies maybe but I see it as a
long-term
Trend okay and so that's what's
happening it is affecting people uh up
in the higher incomes I don't want to
say high incomes but higher
incomes um they talk about a lot of
different things there's the big stay
trapped in place you've heard of the
great
resignation also the vibe session like
all these different names okay so what's
going on now today is that people are
essentially dealing with higher expenses
the job market yeah there's a lot of
people employed in a sense but people
are working two jobs they're working
three jobs they're working side hustles
in a in a world in which
2019 so many people weren't doing that
we move forward a few years everything
seems to be
different right what has changed since
2020 of course they've been pumping out
the cash they've been doing so creating
the inflation that everybody's
experiencing now let's look at some
data you can see the US Labor Market
downshifts job growth and hourly
earnings moderate while unemployment
rate Rises to
3.9% these job numbers are very skewed
just like any of the other data but even
with that not as strong
as we've been told all along us consumer
confidence sours this is going on
because of all of which they've been
dealing with their credit cards are
maxed out the student loans are you know
a heavy burden on a lot of people paying
on average about
$400 okay 400 bucks that takes a big
chunk at the same time and by the way
senior citizens have student debt
there's a lot of them all right and then
of course uh other forms of debt just
continue to add on this is the US
Services index Contracting as business
activity gauge falls on a global scale
the growth is expected to be you know in
that 3% range but when you start to zoom
in some economies do not appear to have
any growth upcoming uh it's just not
going to happen too much inflation
growth just isn't there we need a lot of
growth and lower inflation in order to
you know make maintain this balance
which clearly is not the case if you
look at the Euro Zone I could tell you
right now I mean you look at the Euro
area in general over the last little
while uh technically it's gotten out of
a
recession uh but you break it down by
country and look at that Spain easily
has been
growing over the last year and more uh
but other countries haven't really fared
as well okay especially when we look at
Germany which was is considered to be oh
so fantastic and now not the case
because you can't grow forever
especially in this environment which
Europe is dealing with um you know
demographics problems I mean just name
it just name it now does that mean that
I don't want to do business in Europe I
still want to do business in Europe
there's no question about that but I'm
not going to
be I got to be honest about it right I
got to say okay well I all these other
markets here that I can touch on as well
but I'm certainly going to open up my
arms to the European market because
Millions upon millions of people there
customers are there and of course we
want to do business there but you know
look at the long-term trends okay let's
be clear about that so when you're
investing in companies keep in mind what
companies are the ones that are doing
very well I mean you look at Europe you
got the weight loss drug drugs which are
carrying like if I if I say invest in
Europe right now what are we talking
about a couple weight loss drug
companies and you know one designer
company doing real well right now that's
not strong okay that is not strong at
all and what do we have like what's the
Focus right now is everything to do with
the Federal Reserve and what have they
suggested that made everyone so happy
and then the stock market uh seem to do
well afterwards that is Jerome pow the
fomc they said we will you know it'll be
very unlikely to see rate hikes rate
cuts are coming just not yet and in
addition to that they slow down their
quantitative tightening policy and they
made it clear that they want to go away
from the tightening all right that's
important but then you look north of the
Border in cold Canada the Bank of Canada
can diverge from fed on rates without
stoking inflation according to National
Bank worry that weaker Looney means
inflation on in imported goods
absolutely and so what's going on here
is that Canada is intending un cutting
interest rates uh this is
Tiff good buddy Tiff he's the equivalent
of Jerome Powell in Canada and he said
we're not quite there yet we've made a
lot of progress on inflation all we have
to do is exclude I love it I love it
when they say this volatile food and
energy uh what about the housing
market what about what about that
housing market though that has
multiplied in the past few
years what about that Tiff okay so
inflation is not going high okay don't
worry just just exclude those couple
things inflation's going in the right
direction good stuff they're going to
cut in interest rates that anticipation
of them cutting people start front
running that and of course we get a
there's an issue that we are going to
get more inflation there's no question
about it and we will see that as they
say here weaker Looney the Canadian
currency starts to weaken and remember
this wherever you are around the world
if the us is going to leave their
currency up here that means everybody
else goes down that means it's more
expensive to buy you us or anything in
fact because everything's priced in US
dollar this creates an imbalance keep
that in mind if you're an investor or if
you're just somebody wanting to pay
attention to what's going on right here
and now this is key information you
stayed into this part of the video and
of course you're doing that gets you the
good stuff I always like to put the best
if I can right near the end to reward
those with
patience this is an interesting one the
share of prime working age us men with a
job has declined from about 96% in 1950s
to 86% the effects of recessions
globalization and disabilities can
partially explain the decline but there
are also several other reasons why men
aren't working like they used to they
get into that here I think that what
we're seeing now is many people are just
saying I've had enough of this I don't
want to work I'm disenfranchised I don't
like this I don't like that they're not
doing it that is a problem for the
economy we have people that are staying
in the workforce longer than they would
before because inflation has picked up
the labor force participation rate needs
to improve they need to improve that but
what's going on instead what we're
seeing here is people getting two and
three jobs they're taking the side
hustles everybody's got a side hustle
today because of the obvious price
increases the inflation area factors
that have been put in place by the
central banks they did this on purpose
to create a divide in between the rich
and the poor what can you do obviously
there are steps that you can take I've
got my financial education free free
financial education course and unlike
anybody nobody's doing anything like
this but anybody who does that what do
they do or they want your email because
then they upsell you at the end there's
no upsell you go through that it's 20
minutes of pure Financial education and
I didn't link to my YouTube at all so
that you could share it with your family
and friends so that they can get
information and not be like hey what the
I I I didn't talk about the FED I didn't
talk about central banks at all none of
that stuff so it's just pure Financial
education and yeah it's totally free no
email no pay no no nothing the money
gps.com all you got to do is click on
that link that says compass and you're
right there you're watching I hope that
you will do so um the money gps.com
check it out and as always all I ask for
is a thumbs up on the video to support
the channel I'll see you tomorrow take
care